#1: Is running good for you?
One of the most common questions about running has to be, is running good for you.

And to answer concisely, yes, running is good for you!

Running has many health benefits that will improve your physical fitness and quality of life. Not only does running have physical benefits, but plenty of mental benefits as well.

#2: How can I start running?
Now that you know running is incredible for your body and mind, we’re sure you want to get cracking. But how do you begin?

This is one of our most important questions about running because if you are starting out, the last thing you want to do is jump into too much too quickly, as it can lead to injuries from your body not being accustomed to the high impact of running.

Begin with a walk/run training plan of three days a week at walk/run intervals, two days of strength training, and an optional cross-training day or two. Ensure you always have at least one full day of rest per week to give your body the time to recuperate adequately.

For a complete beginner training plan, we have our very own Couch to 5k training plans using the walk/run method and some beginner guides for strength training for runners.

What gear do I need to start running?
To get started, your most important piece of equipment is going to be your running shoes.

It is important to choose the correct running shoes for you and your running gait. Therefore, head to your local specialty running store to get help from an expert so you start off on the right foot, so to speak.

Rule number one is that your running shoes feel comfortable from the moment yuo put them on. We have excellent guides with extensive information on choosing your running shoes here.

Next, you will want comfortable running clothes appropriate for the weather you will be running in: shorts, tights, tanks, long-sleeved, short-sleeved, sports bras, etc., made from fabrics that dry quickly and won’t leave you drenched in sweat.

After you have your running outfit picked out, a GPS running watch is also an excellent addition to your equipment list.

Here, you can see your distance, pace, laps, heart rate, and an endless amount of other data to track and celebrate your progress. It also makes it much easier to follow workouts and train efficiently.

4: How often should I run?
The ideal running frequency will vary significantly from runner to runner depending on several factors such as fitness level, running goals, experience level, overall health, and age.

If you are running for overall health, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recommendations for adults are to be active on most days of the week and to accrue a minimum of 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise per week or 75 minutes of vigorous activity per week.1

You can split this into as many workouts as you see fit as long as you reach the total minutes. Remember to leave at least one day of rest for your body to recuperate.

5: What should my weekly mileage be?
This is a follow-up question to the previous one, and the answer is similar. It depends. Your mileage will hinge on your current running goal and fitness level.

Weekly mileage varies significantly if you are running your first 5k or if you are a seasoned marathoner trying to hit a new PR.

You also must consider the type of workouts you are doing when planning weekly mileage. If you are running all of your miles at an easy, conversation pace, your body will be able to take on more than if you are including hill sprints and other types of speedwork a couple of times per week.
A great rule is the 10% rule. Increase your mileage by at most 10% from one week to the next. For example, if you run 10 miles during your first week, your second week should only be 11 miles, your third week 12 miles, etc.

Also, take into consideration that you will need recovery weeks every 3-4 weeks, where your mileage needs to dip a bit for recovery purposes.

Check out our mileage guide if you want more specific guidance regarding weekly mileage estimates for 5k, 10k, half marathon, and marathon training.
6: Should I run every day?
Everyone’s body needs time to recuperate to improve overall performance and reduce the risk of overuse injuries.

7: Is running hard?
This question can be relative, but most people feel that running is hard.

Whether it’s when you are just starting out, and every step feels like a big feat, or if you are more advanced and taking on difficult speedwork such as running sprints and hills at your maximum effort.

Whether or not running feels hard will depend significantly on the intensity and length of your workouts. The easier you run, the less difficult running will feel.
